# Math^Industry 2021 Python & Jupyter Notes

This repository contains notes for the Python course of the [2021 edition of
Math^industry](https://m2pi.ca). This workshop takes place from August
3rd-27th, 2021 and pairs graduate students with industry and academic mentors
to tackle real problems from industry. The Python course for m2pi is meant to
provide students with a baseline of programming knowledge to help them tackle
their assigned industry problems.

### Before the Workshop

Prior to the taught material on Jupyter/Python, we would like you to self
assess your skill level in Python and brush up your skills if necessary. Python
is a very user friendly and is quite easy to learn. The python documentation
has lots of links to learning resources; if you have no programming experience,
this list should help you find some suitable tutorials, if you have some
programming experience in another language, this list should help you find some
useful tutorials. Here are a few examples from those lists

  * [Codeacademy](https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-python)
  * [Google's Python Class](https://developers.google.com/edu/python/)
  * [Learnpython.org](http://learnpython.org/)

Some of these resources will let you run python snippets as part of the
tutorial and you may also access a dedicated JupyterHub environment we have
provided for the workshop at https://m2pi.syzygy.ca which will let you run
python in your browser. You can also access [google
collab](https://research.google.com/colaboratory/) with a google account which
will persist after the workshop and can let you work collaboratively with other
people. If you prefer to install things locally,
[miniconda](https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html) or
[anaconda](https://www.anaconda.com/products/individual) is probably the best
way to do that.

Your goals when working through the python tutorials should be to understand...

 * Basic python syntax such as keywords, variables, types etc.
 * Loops (`for` & `while`) and conditionals (`if`, `elif`, `else`)
 * Functions: what the `def` keyword does. How to specify positional and keyword
   arguments to functions and how to provide default values for them.
 * Modules: What they are and how to find good ones!
 * Classes, understanding how to define a basic `class`, what methods and
   attributes are and how to use inheritance/subclassing.

For the last two points, you don't have to master every little corner of the
language, but you should be familiar with the basic terminology and ideas. For
example, you might not need to write your own classes, but you might need to
know how to create a subclass to customize a method in someone else's work.

### [Checkup](./CheckUp/Checkup.ipynb)
In this session we'll go over some of the points above to see if there are any
sticking points.

### [Problem Session 1](./ProblemSession1)

In this session we will review some basic programming problems and solve them
using python. 


### [Using Jupyter and Python for Data Analysis](./LectureNotes)

In this course we will build on your knowledge of Python to sharpen your skills
for data manipulation and analysis. We will use libraries such as pandas, numpy
and matplotlib to ingest, tidy and explore real world datasets and extract
insights from them. We will leverage the Jupyter notebook interface to help us
work with public APIs, combine multiple datasets and perform exploratory
analysis. At the end of the course you should feel comfortable working with
unfamiliar datasets, spotting common data errors and using visualizations to
understand your data and plan more detailed analysis.


### [Problem Session 2](./ProblemSession2)

In this session, we will build on the content of the python/jupyter course as
well as the first problem session and explore some more complex problems which
include external data sources.
